Programming Languages

Java
Java is a class-based, object-oriented, and specifically designed to have as few implementation dependencies as possible programming language developed by Sun Microsystems in the 1990s. It's one of the most in-demand programming languages, a standard for enterprise software, client-server web applications, games and mobile apps, as well as the Android operating system. Java is designed to work across multiple software platforms, meaning that code that runs on one platform does not need to be recompiled to run on another. The language derives much of its syntax from C and C++, but it has fewer low-level facilities than either of them.

C
A general-purpose, imperative programming language developed in the early '70s, C is the oldest and most widely used language, providing the building blocks for other popular languages, such as C#, Java, JavaScript and Python. C is mostly used for implementing operating systems (machine instructions) and embedded applications.

C++
C++ is a general purpose programming language with imperative, object-oriented and generic programming features, while also providing the facilities for low level memory manipulation, originally designed to enhance the C language. It is designed with a bias for systems programming (e.g. embedded systems, operating system kernels), but has also been found useful in many other contexts, including high-performance server and client applications (e.g. e-commerce, web search, SQL), performance critical applications (e.g. telephone switches, space probes) and entertainment software, such as video games. C++ powers major software like Firefox, Winamp and Adobe programs. It is a compiled language, with implementations of it available on many platforms.

C#
C# is a multi-paradigm language encompassing strong typing, imperative, declarative, functional, generic, object-oriented (class-based), and component-oriented programming disciplines, developed by Microsoft as part of its .NET initiative. Combining principles from C and C++, C# is intended to be a simple, modern, general-purpose, object-oriented programming language used to develop software for Microsoft and Windows platforms.

Objective-C
Objective-C is a general-purpose, object-oriented programming language used by Apple operating systems. It powers Apple's OS X and iOS, as well as its application programming interfaces (APIs), and can be used to create iPhone apps, which has generated a huge demand for this once-outmoded programming language.

PHP
PHP is a server-side scripting language designed for dynamic websites and app development but also used as a general-purpose programming language. It can be directly embedded into an HTML source document rather than an external file, which has made it a popular programming language for web developers. PHP powers more than 200 million websites, including Wordpress, Digg and Facebook.

Python
Python is a general-purpose, high-level programming language for websites and mobile apps. It's considered a fairly easy language for beginners due to its readability and compact syntax, meaning developers can use fewer lines of code to express a concept than they would in other languages. Python supports multiple programming paradigms, including object-oriented, imperative and functional programming or procedural styles. It features a dynamic type system and automatic memory management and has a large and comprehensive standard library. It powers the web apps for Instagram, Pinterest and Rdio, and is used by Google, Yahoo! and NASA.

Ruby
Ruby is a dynamic, reflective, object-oriented, general-purpose programming language for developing websites and mobile apps. It was designed and developed in the mid-1990s by Yukihiro "Matz" Matsumoto in Japan. It supports multiple programming paradigms, including functional, object-oriented, and imperative. It also has a dynamic type system and automatic memory management. Designed to be simple and easy to write, Ruby is considered a fairly user-friendly language for beginners.

JavaScript
JavaScript is a client and server-side scripting language developed by Netscape that derives much of its syntax from C. JavaScript is classified as a prototype-based scripting language with dynamic typing and first-class functions. This mix of features makes it a multi-paradigm language, supporting object-oriented,[6] imperative, and functional[1][7] programming styles. It is most commonly used as part of web browsers, whose implementations allow client-side scripts to interact with the user, control the browser, communicate asynchronously, and alter the document content that is displayed. It is also used in server-side network programming, game development and the creation of desktop and mobile applications. JavaScript interpreters are embedded in Google's Chrome extensions, Apple's Safari extensions, Adobe Acrobat and Reader.

SQL
SQL is a special-purpose programming language for managing data in relational database management systems. SQL consists of a data definition language and a data manipulation language. The scope of SQL includes data insert, query, update and delete, schema creation and modification, and data access control.



